Subject: Both repairs in, the Golden Case guard active — and A04's status against your five links

Christian,

Both rendering repairs are made, the drift guard is in and already failing on the current mismatch, and
your two rulings are recorded as standing decisions. The A04 status against your five links is at the
end, with the one act that remains.


1. THE TWO RULINGS, RECORDED

SD-103 — coach-facing language must be entailed by the resolved game; a renderer may compress or combine
supported facts but may not introduce an unsupported game fact merely because it is obvious in the sport.
It is recorded in the specification and quoted at the top of the renderer itself, where it is enforced,
with the note that it was ruled because that file broke it twice.

SD-104 — an initial state value is activity-design information only where an established rule or
relationship reads it; otherwise it is runtime initialization and the coach-facing activity need not
communicate it. Recorded in the specification and against the possession row, with your qualification
carried verbatim and the A01 + From Goal Kicks counterexample named, so the exemption cannot later be
read as a general possession rule.

I did not add a deliberate non-expression entry for the ball, and I did not touch the
empty-consequences or suffix defects in that mechanism. Both are recorded as held and not
pilot-load-bearing.


2. THE SCORING INSTRUCTION — the noun now comes from the game

The sentence no longer contains the word at all. It reads the object's own `kind` from the game and
cites that path, so the carrier is named only when the game establishes one and the reference has
provenance rather than being true by coincidence. Where no object is established the carrier is not
named and the gap is reported as an observation rather than filled in.

Measured, same renderer, two games:

  the live Golden Case  →  "a team scores 1 point by getting the ball across the marked line"
                           provenance now includes objects[…SPORT-SOCCER-01].kind
  the frozen fixture    →  "a team scores 1 point when the marked line is crossed"
                           plus an observation that the game holds no object, so what crosses the line
                           is not established and a coach would have to decide it themselves

That second output is the repair working. The old renderer said "the ball" for both.

A consequence worth noting: the renderer now states no sport vocabulary of its own anywhere. Every noun
in the activity comes from the game or the session — the object's kind, the region nouns, the specialized
role name. That was nearly true before; it is true now.


3. THE POSSESSION-CHANGE INSTRUCTION — gated on the trigger and on the relation

It now requires both: a transition whose selector fixes the trigger to a possession change, AND an
established possession relationship. Otherwise the sentence is withheld and an observation says which of
the two is missing.

I deliberately did NOT cite the holder on that sentence. The relation's establishment is a precondition
for emitting it, not a source of its content — what the sentence says comes from the trigger and the play
state. Citing the holder would have made the fidelity check read it as carried to a coach when no coach
reads it anywhere, which is exactly the unverifiable citation your item-1 question was about. It also
would have made the remaining report disappear for the wrong reason.

Against the frozen fixture the sentence is now withheld, and the observation reads: that transition is
keyed on a possession change and continues play, but the game establishes no possession relationship, so
a coach cannot be told that a possession change does not stop play. Which is a fair description of a game
that would not pass Gate A today — see section 5.


4. THE A04 FIDELITY CHECKS, RERUN — one report remains and it is yours, by your own ruling

On the live Golden Case: 17 instructions, every one of them citing at least one property of the game.

  Q2  nothing unsupported            0 violations
  Q3  nothing lost                   1 violation
  Q4  no status changed by wording   0 violations
  Q5  could a coach run it           0 violations, 4 notes

The single Q3 violation is `possession.team is established by the game and no instruction carries it`.

That is not an unsupported coach-facing fact. It is the opposite: an established fact deliberately not
expressed, which SD-104 says is correct for A04 — and the checker reports it as a loss because you held
the mechanism that would let it say "exempt". So the ruling and the report disagree, deliberately, on
your instruction. I have pinned it by name in the rendering tests with the exit condition stated, so any
OTHER loss still fails and this one cannot quietly become a licence.

**To answer your question directly: no unsupported coach-facing fact remains.** I checked the rest of the
activity rather than assuming, because the two you named were found by reading the code and not by any
check. Every other instruction's content traces to its cited paths — the area dimensions, the three
region nouns and positions, the squad total, the per-side count (which comes from the teams' own
`outfieldCount`, not from dividing twelve by two), the absent specialized role, the duration, the shared
objective, the scoring value, and the modifier and its condition. The two defects you named were the only
two of their kind.

What remains in the rendered activity is not unsupported — it is incomplete, and the notes say where: the
game still does not establish what counts as MEETING the channel condition, and that note is unchanged.


5. THE GOLDEN CASE DRIFT GUARD — active, and failing right now

Implemented as proposed. It recomputes the canonical A04 game through the same builder that writes the
fixture — one definition, two callers, so the guard cannot be a second harness free to drift from the
generator — takes one digest over the whole body, and compares it with the same digest over the frozen
file. The realization choices are inside the guarded Golden Case, as you directed.

It is failing, which is the point:

    frozen fixture    1d4e4f3a   (input digest a9d16e5c)
    live Golden Case  a1c46e8e   (input digest 12dbd433)

The failure names both digests and the two deliberate acts that clear it: refresh, or record an
acknowledgement naming the live digest and why the older game intentionally remains the reference. It
regenerates nothing. An acknowledgement names ONE digest and expires the moment anything moves again, and
if the fixture ever becomes current while an acknowledgement is still present, that is also a failure —
an overtaken acknowledgement must be deleted rather than left behind to excuse the next drift.

Two things about the frozen game that bear on which act you choose. It is not only out of date: it
establishes no ball and no possession relationship, while carrying a transition keyed on a possession
change. That is the exact condition Gate A now refuses, so **the game rendering has been tested against
for the last week is one the system would not authorize today.** And I do not think an acknowledgement
could be written honestly for it — the "because" would have to say why an unauthorizable game is the right
rendering reference.

I did not refresh it. You have reserved that twice and I have taken it as yours. But I did verify the
outcome so the decision needs no guesswork: I refreshed it, ran both rendering files, and restored the
file exactly. With a refreshed fixture the currency guard reports CURRENT and the rendering tests pass,
so

    npm run freeze:a04

is the single act that turns the suite green and makes the rendering tests assert the current Golden Case
instead of an obsolete one. Everything else in the suite is green: 360 checks pass and the run stops at
the guard and nowhere else.


6. A04 STATUS AGAINST YOUR FIVE LINKS

RESOLVED — holds. 49 lines from three objects (the game form, the shaping constraint, and the Sport
Profile): 27 derived, 6 open, 2 existential claims, 7 not established. Zero collisions. No halt. All
seven not-established entries are established absences rather than gaps — one excluded, six declared
unconstrained, including the ball count. Four refusals, all of one kind and all honest: three placements
and one feasibility bound are authored as prose rather than as intervals, so the geometry checks decline
to compare them instead of guessing.

REALIZED — holds. Realization proceeded, acceptance clean on all three of your conditions: nothing
derived lost, nothing invented, nothing closed without authority. Six choices, five checked against
authored sets, one reported as unverified because its bound is a qualitative term. Two team members
instantiated, four entailments completed.

GATE A / GATE B — holds. Gate A is DEFERRED_TO_REALIZATION with its knowledge verdict PASS; the four
deferred checks are the four you ruled post-realization, and the post-realization run validates all of
them. Gate B forward passes. Gate B reverse is NOT_APPLICABLE in derivation mode, which is correct rather
than a pass it has not earned.

FAITHFULLY RENDERED — holds on the live Golden Case, as measured in section 4, and is NOT YET ASSERTED by
the suite, because the suite renders the frozen fixture and the guard correctly refuses to let that count.
This is the one link where the gap between "measured" and "guaranteed" is real, and one command closes it.

ECOLOGICALLY OPERABLE — not assessable here, and I do not think that is a gap in the work. The
representation deliberately holds nothing about pressure, opportunity, affordance availability or
representativeness; your own boundary excludes them. So whether the activity produces the experience it
is designed to produce cannot be established by any check we could write. That is the same thing your
go/no-go question says: it is what external use would teach us and internal architecture testing cannot.

WHAT REMAINS BETWEEN THAT STATE AND CHRISTIAN-ONLY PILOT USE

  1. The fixture refresh. Yours. One command, verified outcome.
  2. The exempt-report decision. The activity is faithful apart from one path your own ruling exempts, and
     the checker cannot say so because you held the mechanism. Nothing is wrong; the report is simply
     louder than the ruling. Leave it, or lift the hold on that mechanism.
  3. One thing a coach would ask that the game cannot answer: what counts as meeting the channel
     condition. A coach is told the consequence — that crossing is worth 2 instead of 1 when the condition
     is met — and cannot be told what meets it. That is a knowledge gap, it is reported rather than
     papered over, and for your own use it may well be acceptable; for anyone else's it is the first
     question they would ask.

Nothing else. The chain closes, the activity is seventeen instructions all traceable to the game, and the
things that are missing are each named in the output rather than hidden by it.

Successful Region Access stays parked, general COMPLETED_PASS reachability stays deferred, Wide Zone
trigger semantics and magnitude stay held, and A04 remains the Golden Case rather than evidence about the
other twelve.

Joe
