Christian,

I ran the controlled rendering against the exact A04 concrete game from the closure run —
read from a frozen fixture, not reselected and not re-realized, so this tests only the
rendering boundary.

Rendering passes all five fidelity questions. It also found one defect in the closure
itself, and four things the concrete game produces that a coach would question. Both sets
are below as evidence rather than as repairs.


THE ACTIVITY, AS A COACH WOULD READ IT

  Set up
    Mark out an area 40 m long by 30 m wide
    For this activity, mark a line across one end of the area, 30 m long, on the end line
      itself
    Mark a channel along the touchline, 40 m long and up to 7.5 m wide        (x3)
    Around 6 m to 7.5 m wide works well, if it suits your group               (x3)

  Players
    12 players in total
    2 teams
    No goalkeepers — everyone is an outfield player

  How it works
    Play for 20 minutes
    Play continues when possession changes — there is no stoppage

  How to score
    For this activity, a team scores 1 point by getting the ball across the marked line
    Both teams attack the same line — the one you marked at the end of the area

Fifteen instructions. Nothing else was written.


1 — WHICH PROPERTIES PRODUCED EACH LOAD-BEARING INSTRUCTION

Every instruction carries the property paths that produced it; an instruction citing
nothing is treated as a defect, not a style choice. The load-bearing ones:

  "Mark out an area 40 m long by 30 m wide"
      envelope.area.length_m, envelope.area.width_m

  "mark a line across one end of the area, 30 m long, on the end line itself"
      space.regions[GF2-03.a].noun — the realization choice "line"
      its across geometry (the 30 m extent) and its along geometry (the degenerate axis,
      fixed at 40, which is what puts it on the end line)

  "Mark a channel ... 40 m long and up to 7.5 m wide"   (once per channel)
      space.regions[WIDEZONE-02.a | -03 | -08.d].noun = "channel"
      .position.along — the full-axis realization choice
      .position.across — "touchline-adjacent", with the authored width bound

  "Around 6 m to 7.5 m wide works well, if it suits your group"
      the preferred bound carried inside the required one, same across row

  "12 players in total"                 envelope.players
  "2 teams"                             performers.teams (two instantiated members)
  "No goalkeepers"                      envelope.roles — the session fact for this run
  "Play for 20 minutes"                 envelope.duration_min
  "Play continues ... no stoppage"      transitions[GF2-07.a].playState = CONTINUE
  "a team scores 1 point by ..."        value.primaryEvent.kind = line_crossed,
                                        .value = 1, objectives[GF2-08.a].role
  "Both teams attack the same line"     objectives[GF2-08.a].team = EACH_TEAM,
                                        .reference


2 — ANYTHING IN THE RENDERING LACKING SUPPORT

No violation.

The mechanism, because it is the half that fails quietly: every instruction must declare
the numbers in its own text, and each declared number must match a value in the game. A
number present in the prose but not declared fails on that ground alone, even when the game
happens to contain it — otherwise a quantity could reach a coach without ever being checked.

One judgment call I want on the record. The first run flagged "2 teams", because 2 is the
cardinality of a collection rather than a stored value. The game does contain two team
members, so the statement is true, and I widened the rule to admit the size of a collection
the instruction cites. That is the only arithmetic rendering is permitted to do. I kept it
that narrow deliberately, and it is why the roster finding below could not be papered over.


3 — ANYTHING REQUIRED BY THE GAME THAT DISAPPEARED

No violation now. One real loss in the first run: envelope.players = 12 was established and
the rendering never told the coach. It is carried now.

Two properties are established and deliberately not carried, and I would like these ruled
rather than assumed:

  transitions[GF2-07.a].startsEpisode = true — an event-accounting property. It tells the
    system when to begin attributing events; a coach does nothing differently because of it.
    The coach-facing half of the same transition, that play continues, IS carried.

  space.axis = "the longer envelope dimension" — an internal orientation convention. The
    rendered geometry is already in metres along and across.

Both are reported in the output with their reasons attached, so the exclusion list is
visible rather than a silent filter. If you would rather nothing be excluded, that is a
one-line change.


4 — WHETHER WORDING CHANGED THE STATUS OF ANYTHING

No violation, and the reason is structural rather than careful. Wording is generated from
the status of the source, not chosen and then checked afterwards. DERIVED gets the
imperative. A realization choice gets "For this activity, ...", which states the fact
without claiming the knowledge demanded it. A preference gets "if it suits your group".
There is no path by which a preference reaches imperative wording, because the imperative
wording is not reachable from PREFERENCE.

All three of your directions are tested, and tested by trying to break them: a requirement
written as optional, a preference written as compulsory, and a realization choice written as
a necessity are each caught. I think that matters more than the pass, because a fidelity
check that only ever passes is not evidence. Writing those cases also found a real weakness
— the region check had been accepting any instruction that mentioned a region, so a
preference about a channel's width counted as an instruction to mark it.


5 — COULD A COACH LAY IT OUT AND PLAY IT FROM THIS ALONE

Not quite, and the reason is the most important thing in this note.

They can mark everything, and they know the duration, how scoring works, and that play
continues on a turnover. They cannot pick sides. No team carries a size.

The number is derivable, and in fact was derived: the post-realization gate worked out six a
side from the session total of twelve plus the authored equality, and passed its roster check
on that. But it derived the value into its own evaluation context and never wrote it back
into the concrete game, so the game that was marked render-eligible does not contain it.

I did not have rendering recompute it. Twelve divided by two is the obvious repair and it is
exactly the forbidden move — the game does not establish the number, so a renderer producing
it would be asserting a quantity on its own authority.

What I think this means, stated precisely: the invariant genuinely passed, and the roster
genuinely derives. What failed is that the artifact does not carry what the invariant used to
check it. So "render-eligible" is currently a weaker claim than "renderable into something a
coach can actually run", and the gap between the two is a value that exists only inside a
gate. It is the same shape as the losses we have chased before — knowledge established at one
stage and not surviving into the next — appearing in a new place, and the rendering test found
it immediately. The closure stands on its own terms; this says the terms were narrower than
they sounded.

Fixing it means writing the derived roster back into the game, which is realization work
rather than rendering work, so I have left it alone pending your view.


WHAT THE GAME PRODUCES THAT A COACH WOULD QUESTION

Returned as evidence, per your instruction, and not repaired in prose.

  Three channels, all on the same touchline. Every one is anchored at across = 0, from three
  separate Wide Zone contributions. A coach following the output literally marks one strip
  three times. Whether this is three regions or one region described three times is a
  knowledge question, and I do not think rendering should resolve it.

  The scoring line has zero depth and sits exactly on the end line. That is what the
  knowledge entails for a line, and it is markable — but a coach may well expect a scoring
  zone with some depth, and the game does not provide one.

  Both teams score at the same line. Canonical and deliberate, but unusual enough that a
  coach will set up two targets out of habit unless it is said plainly, which is why it has
  its own sentence.

  No region carries a stated function. Four `functions` rows are excluded, so nothing in the
  game says what the channels are FOR. The rendering therefore tells a coach to mark three
  channels and cannot tell them why. That is faithful, and I suspect it is the first thing a
  coach would ask about.


WHAT I WOULD LIKE RULED

  1. The roster write-back — whether the derived team size should become part of the concrete
     game, and if so at which stage.
  2. The two deliberate non-carriages in (3).
  3. The three channels — three regions, or one region contributed three times.
  4. Whether a region should need a stated function before a rendering is allowed to tell a
     coach to mark it.

Scope held where you set it: one game, one rendering. No activity-set logic, no three-activity
variation, no slot system, nothing touched in broader coach-facing generation.

Joe
