Subject: The four corrections are in — here are the two owner values, in the exact form the representation needs

Christian,

All four corrections are implemented and A04 is down to the two values you have to
supply. They are below in the precise machine-readable form, with nothing inferred
on your behalf.

Generation remains frozen. 246 tests, suite green. Trace attached.


WHAT IS IN

REGISTER GUARD (your item 1). A realization choice must now satisfy the authored
permitted set AND the row's canonical vocabulary. Where they disagree the refusal
names both sides, because the disagreement is the knowledge defect rather than the
realizer's choice. General, with regression coverage.

`line` (item 4). Added to S3.noun as an owner-authorized extension, version 2 —
not admitted because GF2's set contained it.

Its semantics are general and NAME NO AXIS. A new `nounSemantics` block gives each
noun an extent-dimension count, and the rule is: a one-dimensional noun has extent
on exactly one axis, and whichever axis carries that extent is its length, so its
extent on the other is zero. Orientation is read off the geometry already
established, never from the noun.

I tested it in both orientations specifically so "line = end line" could not be
encoded by accident. An end-line target comes out zero-extent along; a
touchline-parallel line comes out zero-extent across; same rule, no special case.
That closed GF2-03.a's geometry — GA-LAYOUT-FEASIBLE now names the channel instead
of the target.

RC-21 FOLD (items 2b and 5). `spatialRelations` is gone. Before folding I checked
each term for a legitimate home, as you asked:

  touchline-adjacent            already there — "touches a touchline"
  attacking end (of team T)     already there — "touches the end line T attacks"
  own end (of team T)           already there in prose; machine form added
  full extent (of an axis)      NO HOME. The block had no predicate for an element
                                spanning a whole axis, which is what both "end line
                                to end line" and "extends across the axis" state.

So one genuinely new predicate was needed rather than forced across. It is
axis-free, so a single term serves both uses. I have added it to the canonical
block and flagged it, because a term name is vocabulary and that is yours to
confirm.

A phrase index maps authored phrases to canonical terms, so recognition is by term
and the vocabulary is not keyed on prose. And your lesson is kept as a test rather
than a comment: a regression asserts the parallel block cannot come back and that
every indexed phrase resolves to a term the same block defines.


THE TWO OWNER VALUES


1 · CHANNEL WIDTH — TWO FRACTIONS, AND WHY NOT THREE

Your functional statement has three claims in it: wide enough to establish the
affordance; a bounded minority individually; meaningful non-wide space preserved
collectively.

The smallest machine-readable form needs only TWO numbers, because the third
follows. Expressed as a term in `relativeTerms.machineReadable`, in the block's own
shape:

  "bounded minority (of an axis)": {
      "kind": "interval",
      "from": <MIN fraction of the named axis>,
      "to":   <MAX fraction of the named axis>
  }

Both are fractions of the across dimension, so the rule scales and no metre value
appears in the knowledge. Applied to a touchline anchor it yields a concrete
interval; on a 30 m width, 0.2 would give a 6 m channel.

The collective claim follows from the per-channel maximum and the authored channel
count. WIDEZONE-03 authors COUNT 2, so two channels each at most `to` leave at
least 1 − 2·`to` of the width non-wide. You do not need to author that separately.

ONE CAVEAT, because it is the kind of thing that stops being true quietly: that
derivation holds only while the channel count is bounded. If a game ever authored
an unbounded number of channels, the collective constraint would no longer follow
and would need stating in its own right. I can add a check that the collective
share cannot exceed a stated limit if you would rather have it explicit now.

The authored 6–10 m stays exactly where it is, as preferred realization guidance,
and is offered rather than enforced.

I have not chosen the two fractions.


2 · A04 ROSTER — ONE SESSION STATEMENT AND ONE PROMOTION

The session statement, using the approved pathway:

  envelope.roles = { "goalkeeper": 0 }

An explicit zero, not an omission — absent means NOT STATED, so an empty map does
not help. With it, the twelve players are all outfield BY STATEMENT rather than by
implication, which is the condition you set.

That alone does not finish it. The roster still has to split twelve across two
teams, and nothing authors a per-team count. GF2-14.b authors "equal outfield
counts" but as ASSUMED, so it bounds without entailing. So the second value is:

  promote GF2-14.b from ASSUMED to authored knowledge

With both, the chain derives honestly: 12 session players, 0 goalkeepers
available, 0 neutrals, 2 teams, equal counts — 6 outfield each, every step from a
stated fact.

If you would rather not promote GF2-14.b, the alternative is a session statement
of the per-team split, which pushes a knowledge question into session input. I
think the promotion is the better of the two, but it is an assumption becoming
knowledge and that is yours.


WHERE A04 STANDS

  realization acceptance      PASSED
  post-realization Gate A     NOT PASSED
  render-eligible             NO

Remaining: GA-ENVELOPE-FIT and GA-LAYOUT-FEASIBLE on the channel width, and
GA-ROSTER-SUM on the roster. Both are the values above. No new load-bearing
dependency appeared in this round.

COMPLETED_PASS still outstanding and still non-blocking.

Joe

